Welcome to the second course in the
Introduction to Applied Data Science with
Python specialization.
In the first course we looked,
primarily, at how to manipulate data,
including loading data from
structured delimited files,
such as CSVs, cleaning the data with
Python pandas, and NumPy libraries, and
transforming data using functions,
such as apply, aggregate, map, and pivot.
If you don't feel you have a solid
understanding of the pandas toolkit,
then I would invite you to go back and
review that course content.
The main topic of this course is
understanding how to communicate data more
clearly to the various stakeholders
who are interested in the data.
And there are many different
stakeholders to whom you might be
interested in using visuals to reach.
For instance, you want to share unbiased,
representations of data with
peer data scientists who are able to make
their own inferences and interpretations.
But you'll also want to be able to share
stories about the data with managers and
executives who might be familiar
with domain but are looking for
specific actionable insights.
Finally, you'll also want to be able to
communicate like a journalist to a broad
population who knows very little
about your particular data and
needs to understand not only an overview
of the phenomenon you are describing but
also the limitations of
the approaches you have used.
This course is about specific techniques
which are part of a broad subject of
information visualization.
Referred to an infovis for short,
this is a field that has rapidly developed
over the past 20 years, as computing power
has made it possible to build compelling
visual and interactive graphics quickly.
And while the use of visualizations to
impart knowledge of data has been around
for centuries, the last 20 years have seen
the development of important theoretical
basis for best practices in displaying
information to various audiences.
And in this course,
we're going to focus on those.
In this first week of the course, we're
going to touch on some of those theories
and best practices, and talk about
fundamental thinkers in the field.
In particular,
Alberto Cairo and Edward Tufte.
We'll go through some examples
of excellent and not so
excellent visualizations.
And develop a language for
speaking about how we might make
meaningful visualizations ourselves.
This portion of the course will be largely
lecture based with several readings and
peer reviewed assignment
at the end of each week.
In the second and third week of
the course, we'll dive into the de facto
Python library for creating charts and
graphs, matplotlib.
Now matplotlib isn't the only way to
create visual artifacts in Python, but
it's the basis for some emerging new
web tools such as C-Born and Bokeh.
And acts as a solid foundation for
our discussions.
The majority of these weeks will be spent
actually working on assignments with
a few lectures to share an overview
of how the toolkit itself works.
And you'll be expected to take messy
raw data, process it using pandas or
other suitable techniques and render it
into a meaningful, explanatory image.
And again, if you're not comfortable yet
using pandas, I would encourage you to go
back to the first course in this
specialization and review those videos.
The assignments for weeks two and
three will be largely peer graded.
Finally, the course will
culminate with a small project,
similar to the first course.
In this project, you will be given
a new visualization technique and
you will be asked to extend the matplotlib
code base to enhance its functionality.
This is a critical step in your
journey as a data scientist.
To go beyond using tools off the shelf and
instead be able to modify
them to support new ways of
understanding data and problems.
This course is very similar to the first,
except the evaluation
is largely peer review.
The lectures will only guide you so
much in completing the assignments.
You'll need to know how to ask questions
in the discussion forums of your peers.
And seek out new information through
web searches and Stack Overflow.
And again,
Stack Overflow is tagged specifically for
questions about matplotlib.
So I'd encourage you to
use that resource as well.
Finally, for this course,
I expect that you are familiar with
all of the content from Course 1.
I'm looking forward to this
next course in specialization.
Let's get started.